Network Standars:

A. OSI Model
  Each layer communicates with the same layer on the recieving machine
  1. Application 7
    a. Application interface to network services
      - HTTP
      - POP/IMAP
      - SMTP
      - DNS
      - TELNET
    b. The applications way to communicate with network
  2. Presentation 6
    a. Translates teh application layer data to an intermediate form that provides security, encryption, and compression for data
  3. Session 5
    a. Establishes and controls data communnication between applications operating on different computers.
  4. Transport 4
    a. dives long communications into smaller packages, handles error correction and acknowledges the receipt of data
      - Segmentation
      - Sequencing
      - Acknowledgements
      - Checksums
  5. Network 3
    a. addresses data messages and handles message routing
      - IP addresses
      - Protocol addresses 
      - Datagram
  6. Data link 2 
    a. Packages bit of data from the physical layer into frames and transfers them from one computer to another
      - Physical Addresses
      - CRC - Fail safe for packets, uses hashing
  7. Physical 1
    a. Transmits bits from one computer to another and regulates the transmission stream over a medium
B. IEEE standards
  1. 802.2
    a. MAC sub-layer addressing
  2. 802.3
    a. Ethernet standard
  3. 802.5
    a. Token Ring
  4. 802.11
    a. Wireless standards
  5. 802.15
    a. Wireless personal area networks
  6. 802.16
    a. WiMAX - a type of wireless MAN
C. Ethernet Frame
  1. Data packet that has been encoded at the Data Link layer for network transmission
    a. Preamble - Pattern of 0s and 1s that signals the beginning of a frame
    b. Start of Frame Delimiter - Beginning of data field
    c. Destination Address - MAC address of destination computer
      - Always used as 'Next Hop' identifier
    d. Source Address - MAC address of source
    e. Frame Type - Frame type ID or the length of the entire frame in bytes
    f. Data - The actual payload minimum of 46 bytes and max 1500
D. MAC Address
  1. Media Access Control
    a. Unique address permanently embedded by the manufacturer
    b. Only used on the local network
    g. Frame Check Sequence - Uses 32bit CRC to perform error checking
